# Clickbait-Headline-Generator

Clickbait headlines generally refer to those that pique readers' curiosity and grab their attention. Ideally, these headlines should be getting the attention of a reader but stay true to the contents of the news or report. But what we see is that these headlines are wildly misleading and, in many cases, outright lying about the events that the article describes.  

These types of headlines often spread misinformation and is truly becoming a nuisance as millions of people see these types of headlines, often do not end up reading through the whole article and end up with people being misled into believing false information. While there are many different types of machine learning models that have been developed (and still being developed) to detect clickbait, I want to try a different approach and develop a clickbait headline generation model. The goal here is to understand how clickbait headlines work, by analyzing the language and patterns used in these types of headlines. By training such a model on large datasets, I aim to identify common characteristics and techniques used to grab the reader’s attention.

I also hope that the results from my project can help in gaining insights about the psychological aspects of why these headlines are so effective, like the usage of emotional language, the type of topics covered that are covered in these headlines and so on. Understanding these factors can help in developing significant strategies for creating headlines attention-grabbing headlines that are still accurate and informative, which is the original purpose of this tactic. I also believe that these insights can help in developing effective headline writing, promoting responsible journalism, and reducing the spread of misinformation online. 

This project is currently a work-in-progress, with a lot of improvments in the plans, I hope to complete this project in the near future and add more info here about the same!
